all right folks welcome back
this lesson
is going to be on
forex
and how we can apply this model to the
fx market
now if you are a longtime
student of mine
a lot of the things i'm going to talk
about in here are going to be very
familiar to you
i promise you the things that
the newer students that just found this
channel
are going to feel like they're stuck on
majority of it is in the free lessons in
this youtube channel okay so
i'm going to count you to go through
those videos and you'll get your answers
there okay
all right so
if we're looking at the
euro dollar and i'll let you know that's
what this is this is the daily chart for
euro
i want you to take a look at how price
moved above
these relative equal
highs right here
now once it did that
this took
the buy side or buy stops
out of the marketplace here
then it started going lower
what would it likely be reaching for
next
well it took buy side out
here
what do you think is resting below here
sell stops or sell side liquidity
now just to the left
notice these two little devils here
relative equal lows
and
with this one and this one we have
two areas of sell side liquidity
notice this candle here which happens to
be monday's trading
or yesterday's trading this
low did not take out that low yet notice
that
so we have unfinished business
below here and potentially below here
so if this is a daily chart
even though we've come
from this high and had three
consecutive down close candles
what is the bias
the very next candle
what's the bias going to be
bearish we're anticipating bearishness
going in
so let's take that and flush that out a
little bit more
so here is
your chart that would be annotated
and you have this level in your chart
while you're learning it's important to
have these types of things on your chart
over time
all you need is a pad and something to
write with and you'll write down the
levels
majority of time
the only time i'm showing a level on my
chart is for teaching purposes i like to
keep my chart clean
and that way i'm not
forcing that bias if i see something
that would allow me to
like negate
the whole premise that i went into the
market with
and either reverse or move to the
sidelines i want that clarity
now i say that and some of you purists
in here that just simply want to do
everything i say and hang on every
single one of my words
don't
avoid or
try to do it without having annotations
like having levels drawn on your chart
because you need to train yourself to
see it
and what i mean by that well having
these
relative equal highs
highlighted
your buy stops would be resting above
here and the market will go just above
that a little bit and then once those
buy stops are taken for anyone that's
short
they're getting knocked down
in a loss
and that flood of orders to be buying at
the market
is counterparty to individuals that want
to sell short
so smart money is selling short up here
with the expectation it's going to go
below this low here below here and
potentially below that low down there
so today's trading we had
the open it rallies up a little bit
then careens through the short term low
here
and below the relative equal lows here
not by much we'll see it but it's still
there
now
what level
on the downside after this day close if
we're looking for lower prices what
could be expected to draw to obviously
below here and below here but what price
level
109 big figure so the big figure numbers
okay or the zero levels
they're very influential because there's
lots of liquidity
that is used around those levels a lot
of commerce
a lot of business transactions that come
in just for the sake of simplicity 0 0
level to 20 levels the 50 levels and the
80 levels
so i dub them institutional price levels
i teach that in the free videos in this
youtube channel too
all right so we're going to drop down to
an alloy truck but before we get into
that i'm going to revisit the
swing trading idea that i taught
highest up close or opening
in this retracement up and the lowest
open or close is here
so i left the highlighted
candles so you can match that up on
yours
and then we have this old low
so below this olaf it goes below that
how many
pips can it go below that
well
we have
the big figure 109 right
remember the previous chart here watch
over here
that's essentially the 1.09
big figure
so do we have any levels in here on the
fib that
correspond to that well we have 1.0919
that's possible
then we have 1.09
that's another level that's possible
and we have
1.0901
essentially almost the big figure right
so we have a standard deviation
from this swing to here
if this is broken these are only true
if this low is broken okay
so this is a falcon point
and this is a fulcrum point
so how do we know which level we're
going to aim for well we have those
relative equal lows at the 109 big
figure level
and then we have
our fib
calling for these levels down here in
the lowest one without going through
1.09 is this one here
all right on the hourly chart with our
buy side liquidity pool level here the
market trades up into that area
absorbing all of that liquidity then
breaking down
takes out a short-term low here
and here
retraces up in
breaks lower
then we go into today's trading the
fifth
prior to
the day starting we know that it's
likely to draw below here and then down
to that 109 big figure
have a lot of convergence around that
109 big figure
at the beginning
of the day at midnight new york local
time
that's going to be right in here
if we see
the market rally up which is what we
want to see we want to see a protraction
in the marketplace where it starts to go
against the expected direction of the
move intraday
so if we're bearish and we're looking
for that 109 level to be treated to and
attack the liquidity below here
preferably we want to see it rally first
that's the judas swing okay that mark of
protraction is what we're looking for
for manipulation part of
my concept power three which is
accumulation manipulation distribution
okay so
once the day begins at midnight we're
anticipating a move up what's it gonna
be trading up into this imbalance in
here
okay so once it does that
it kind of like forms the daily high and
then the rest of the day you're gonna be
looking for distribution throughout the
day looking for lower prices
so inside that little shaded area we're
going to use that
going forward
so let's drop down to a lower time frame
15 minute time frame here is that
imbalance that doesn't look that
clean on a 15 minute time frame but the
hourly is what we're framing it on okay
so the market trades up into that
here is the midnight new york local time
candle on the 15 minute time frame
chart
opening price is here extended out
throughout the day
that is your midnight new york
candle
opening price
preferably
if we're selling short we want to see
price trade above
this
opening price
this is where smart money is
accumulating short positions
see that
so the algorithm goes higher
once more higher once more higher and
then again right here
and then
begins its descent into the daily range
low
now what's occurring here
this is not buying and selling pressure
the algorithm is offering constantly
price above this opening price
now every single time it rallies up just
because it does that doesn't necessarily
mean that it's a time for you to get in
but when you couple that with time
of day
and
price
it becomes a lot better
notice we have an imbalance in here so
the fair value gap there
and
price runs up during
the new york open kill zone
okay so i dubbed this specific time of
day between seven o'clock in the morning
new york time to 10 o'clock in the
morning
this is specific to 4x
okay these times are specific
to fx payers
if you're going to trade an index don't
worry about that
you can work with the 8 30 to 11 o'clock
in your local time
but for 4x the algorithm is going to
operate on these specific elements of
time
so if we're looking at this in balance
here the market runs up and it
overshoots the imbalance a little bit
but what's it really go to
the last closed candle which is a
bearish order block how do we know
there's a bearish order block
because we have
the imbalance here
and it's trading back up into after a
nice move lower so this displacement
fair value gap lasts up close candle
touches it there's your bearish order
block
dropping down into a five minute chart
everything being as it was on the 15
that's that order block here just being
shown on a five minute chart but i'm
adding now the annotation of the new
york open kill zone seven o'clock in the
morning begins here at the end of that
line segment and ten o'clock is here
so everything underneath this
end the trend line here
and below this part of it this all is
during the new york open kill zone so
you're hunting your setup for forex
payers within that little block of time
so during this time you're hunting your
setup what price are you looking for
preferably at or just above the opening
price at midnight
now
if you are a
new york session trader
you want to refer to the opening price
at midnight but then you want to
recalibrate at 8 30
and we'll look at that in a moment but
for now
just notice
looking at this
particular day on the economic calendar
we had a high impact news driver at 10
o'clock in the morning it was the ism
services pmi number
now
before you want to start sending me
emails
or start sending me essay questions in
the comments section of this video
about
what does the ism pmi number do what's
it i don't care what these numbers are
really
discussing i don't care i don't care
about the raw data i don't care what the
expectation is i don't care
okay
what i'm expecting is the volatility in
the marketplace at or around these
specific times because the algorithm is
going to use that injection of
volatility
to facilitate
trades
now is it trying to give you good trades
no
it's trying to move
and rebook and reprice to levels to
allow those in the know
to participate
it's a rigged game
you're not supposed to be in it
not consistently profitable let's say
that way
but
for those that are in the know they're
looking for these types of signatures
and price action so they know what
they're looking for in terms of when
they're going to operate
so as a technician
they're looking for a specific element
of time
which is encapsulated with this segment
right here seven o'clock to ten o'clock
so that little bracket of time
right there on a five minute chart
you're hunting your setup
what is the thresholds that make it high
probability well if you're going short
or looking to go short you want to be
above the midnight opening price
that's here extended out in time
but now once we hit this order block
here that was during the early stages of
the new york open right around the seven
o'clock
hour
the market drops
and then retraces back into
that
news driver here at 10.
so what's happening here is look closely
with this swing low
it went below this low here
and then it rallied back up
once more above the opening price at
midnight does it take out this high
no
why doesn't it take out this high
because it has an imbalance here
that imbalance tells you this is an
intermediate term high if we're bearish
it shouldn't take this high out now
again
i mentioned this
in a recent video i think if i'm not
mistaken it was episode 12.
i'm going by memory so please don't
roast me in the comments section if
that's the wrong one but it's basically
what i'm talking about intermediate term
short term and
long term highs and lows or swing highs
and lows
a imbalance or a fair value gap
associated with a swing higher swing low
in this case this is imminent term high
not because it just simply has a
imbalance but because the narrative is
we're expecting lower prices
and
it went above the opening price at
midnight
and the imbalance there when it retraces
back up into this fake run ahead of the
news driver at 10 o'clock the news if
you will
this movement here is only running right
back up into the bearish order block
last up close candle the body we don't i
don't like to use these long tails and
wicks i'll refer to them but i'd like to
prefer
to
annotate if i'm going to show it in my
examples or look to price returning back
to
the body of the candle
right there
so
this return into that order block sets
the stage for another move lower we get
a swing high
lower high to the
right of this candle and a lower high to
the left of it here so we have three
candles making a swing high so we start
looking for displacement and movement
lower
but looking closer
after we had that
shift in market structure here on a
five-minute chart it retraces back up
fair value gap
parish order block and news this is the
wild card okay when you have high impact
news drivers this is going to many times
scare you out of the trade or stop you
out in the words if you went short back
here and you started trailing your stop
loss this is what that's designed to do
take you out
so if you're short back here or here or
here
how are you protecting the trade you're
putting a buy stop above recent swing
highs
so they're
jamming it up against that back above
the opening price
because your buy stop is going to flood
the market with buyers
willing to pay a higher price than it
was here before it runs higher and
you're going to buy
or those individuals that have their
stops they're going to buy
the counterparty side of the smart money
that wants to sell short
because every buyer has to have a seller
every seller has to have a buyer
so that's what's occurring here but
inside this shaded area
i want to show you how this model is
applicable here in fx
so here's the four minute chart we were
just looking at five so we start
stripping down this price leg
here and we're looking for any fair
value gap
do you see it
pause the video look for it
all right i'm about to show you this
candle is low this candle is high
there's your fair value cup isn't it
interesting it just goes right up into
there closes that in
then and only then the market starts to
aggressively run below the short term
low here and then reaching into our
objective down here at that 109
big figure
now it doesn't quite get to 1.09
even
but it does get to our fibonacci
extension for the standard deviation it
does get down to the old relative equal
lows on the daily chart which is what
that blue
line is and look at the bodies
respecting that level not much movement
below it
now for all of you raw dogs out there
okay this is too much michael you're
over complicating it
you're confusing me michael you're
talking about the midnight candle for
the opening price and now you're talking
about the 830 which one do i use why do
i use it this that i don't think all
right if you're gonna be trading fx
you're gonna be using the 8 30 in the
morning
for new york session trades
but
refer to the new york open at midnight
as well
if the opening price is lower at the 830
than that of the opening price at
midnight
use the lower one
reason why is you want to set the
minimum threshold for a due to swing or
market protraction to the upside when
you're bearish
and obviously everything that i just
said would be reverse if you're bullish
you'd be looking for a move below the
opening at 8 30
to go long after it moves below it but
we're focusing primarily on the shorting
opportunity here in hindsight so that
way you can
get a better feel for how to use this
model
with fx so there's a subtle little
group of nuances that you have to be
aware of when you're looking at fx
but it's not terribly you know
harsh it's pretty easy to
work with
so we have the market
trading above the opening price here
market protraction due to swing it
rallies up
and then
breaks down in here now this run here
above the opening price
does it have a fair value gap
here's the four minute chart
opening price now doesn't look the same
because we're looking at a four-minute
chart so it was anchored on a
five-minute chart
it rallies up
you break lower
fair value got right there
trades up into it hammers it beautifully
and then displacement trades lower
down into that 109.
was it one point zero nine zero one
something or other i can't remember i
thought i had but it hit it
and
i think the low of the day was 1.0901
so
not bad i mean it's
pretty close to perfect right
but
by itself
you don't want to try to aim for just
that level okay because that's the best
exit strategy you don't want to do that
you want to fluff up your exits with
a couple pips i like to teach my
students three to five pips
and if you're thinking a target is going
to be like for instance we'll say
1.0900 level
okay if that's what you think it's going
to trade to
put your limit order to cover your
shorts if you're short
at
1.0905
okay
you're not going to get the best exit
that way but you have a spread that you
have to incorporate when you're working
with 4x and fx pairs
sometimes and i've had a lot of this
happen over the years as a fx trader
where
my limit order was a little too
overzealous
i was trying to be a little too perfect
and i've had
many
amazing exits
elude me
because of my
overzealous
targeting
so be a little bit more forgiving when
you're trading especially 4x you got to
incorporate the spread and i know some
of you have brokers where it's like oh i
have a really tight spread let me tell
you something every broker has the
ability to open that spread up on you
you're seeing the best case scenario
when that ticker is showing
but
trust me when it's advantageous for them
they'll work it in their behalf not
yours
so make it easier for yourself just
fluff up your excess with five pips
okay and if you're really new just use
10 pips okay and if you're struggling
with the idea that oh i don't want to do
that i'll give up 10 pips
well
let me show you this
would be your entry candle trading right
back to this old high here so one pit
bat or
thereabouts
once it hits that candle
with this run here
that right there would be your entry
candle your stop would be right above
this candle's high
now if you're scared or whatever you can
use this swing high and that's fine
now in terms of
math
the entry price would be
1.096
and your stop would be
1.09728 hypothetically that's not a lot
of pips
i would generally round that to 10.
even though it's not technically 10 pips
here i would round it to 10
and just be done with it
and
looking at that model here and you're
aiming for that
essentially the 1.09 big figure fluffing
it up a little bit so our exit price
would be a little bit higher than that
you guys see these things all the time
and i just feel like using it you know
just because i want to be cool
the risk is here
entry to stop
and the distribution to your target down
here
risk to reward
ratio better than eight to one
and using a hypothetical
100 000
demo account if you're doing one of
those funded account challenges or
whatever
in this trade here
this gives you
basically what you're looking for in one
trade
so
i don't know if this scratches the issue
for you but
the stuff works in forex it works in
index trading
so
it's a matter of adjusting to what it is
you're trying to trade
and then there's a little bit of rule
following that you have to know
when it comes to index trading and fx
fx predominantly you're working with
seven o'clock in the morning to ten
o'clock in the morning that's your new
york open kill zone okay
index trading i'm focusing on 8 30 to 11
and i can take a trade all the way up to
10 40 10 45
and still be okay i'm not interested in
taking new trades generally after 10
o'clock in the morning
in the fx pair
unless there is a news driver like we
had this morning
with
the isem number the pmi number i
mentioned earlier in the video
so that was allowing me to be a little
bit more forgiving
with expectations for price
you
may not want to trade high impact news
drivers
and
that's understandable if you don't know
what you're doing
but don't be afraid of them now
with the economic counter having that
high impact news driver at 10 o'clock
that extends
the new york session kill zone into the
11 11 30 time window
because the volatility that it will
bring in
now i didn't take this trade
i haven't taken any fx pair trades at
all
not for 2022 at least but
if you're looking at a model that works
in
index futures
you're looking at that 8 30 to 11
o'clock window
and if you're trying to apply this model
to fx it's seven o'clock in the morning
to 10 o'clock in the morning now
the high impact news drivers that come
out after 10 o'clock
like for instance if you're a canadian
dollar trader
and the
crude oil inventory number comes out
usually like 10 30 in the morning you
have to make allowances for that
and just expect there'd be a likely move
on that oil number at 10 30.
so
just something to throw out there i know
a lot of you been barking wanting to see
something
fx related because you know
predominantly i've been doing that since
but
i humbly submit this for your
inquiry and that way you can study this
and listen to it a few times it has a
couple things in there that mia went
over your head it's not terribly
you know
demanding in terms of
note-taking but there's some things in
here that are noteworthy for you to have
in your study journal
and
for the most part it looks like it works
pretty good in this pair too or in this
asset class
so until i talk to you again on thursday
be safe